By Mr Edgar

Ground Rules
1. Random checks - Distinguishing groups as time goes
2. Arrival times - Allowing people some slack. Latest 1115. 15   minutes for late comers.
3. Login names. For purposes of attendance list.
4. Meeting times - Wed 11 to 1, 4 to 6; Friday 11 to 1
5. Confirmation on the units done. 
        Probability and stats. Done
            What was statistics? 
                Steve: Collect data and make decision based         on it.
                what left; sort data
                
        2 in one course.
        Principles of Accounting.
            What was Accounting?
                Khadijah: System of recording and analysing finacial transactions.
                In a business and after some time produce a report. 
                
Unit combine 2 things: Statistics and Finance:
    How are they related?
        Record financial system to make deciosion. At the end make a deliverable.
        
Why am I doing statistics and financing again and we do IT?

Relationship btn statistics and computing?

Statistics is collection of data. Adn computer is supposed to store this data and we analyze them.

computer does border around statistics.
basic point of a computer: Has a lot of statistics. Computer able to do a quite range of analysis.
Evolution of computers: Store a lot of data and reduce the size of the computer hardware.

2005 2006 : People were crazy about hardware
Over time people moved from hardware now to the software.
Replace manual transaction etc.

After software??
    Gordon: No clue.

Mobile Application is the next boom.
List of apps
appstore
whatsapp
insagram
tiktok no
facebook
contacts

and many others

We are living in an age where no much hardware or software but mobile apps.
So as long as the device can run the app, then the device does not matter.

After Mobile App?
We move to Yvoones cleary said... Data.

The mobile apps are collecting their data.
<mobile data are collecting data.
Safaricom becomes prominet coz they are sharing data to another business interested with the data.

Statistics from a perspective of a computer scientist.

Automated What we learnt in Statistics.

Data Science is the base.

complete journey
1. Basic Statistics. Basic Analysis. 1
2. Analyze data using some computing tools. 2
3. Draw some conclusions
4. Big data. (Structured /unstructured) 3
5. AI Machine learning. Data Mining.

FINACIAL SIDE
Also people here record data.
Monetary data though.

Some people become coy to bring a new course. Combine computing and financing. BBIT. Effort to bridge that gap.

You cannot separate business without computing.

Legal business that does not use computing.

Mama mbonga and technology. Mpesa Call. 
Mjengo. Can use Mpesa.
Politics.

No any business that does not IT.

Computing and business are tied together.

The most profitable business that pays a lot of taxes. Safaricom. NO LINE BTN  businesses and Tech. Thin or no line.

90 percent of us end up in buisiness companies than IT companies.

Business realized have realized they can collect data, and use it on many purposes.
When bank gives out loan. Mpesa data.

Techonology is the bridge that links the two.

coming from data science and how it is applied in business

After Campus?

Lokong - Network Engineer.

Programming languages

Find out the programming languages in your line.
Undersrtand the languages.

NEW FIELD OF DATA SCIENCE:
No longer making application for the sake but one that gets a lot of data as possible.

Data is the gold mine.

SUMMARY OF GUIDE TOPIC 1:
Evolution of Computers.

Modern apps can be able to describe your characteristics based on the data they collect on you.

Data Science/ Data analysis.

Huduma coolcting data. IS/IT help us to manage data.
Important to understand and manage finacial systems.

Knowing how a system makes you a enduser. Knowing how to program and make a system makes you an ICT expert.

Example of statistical tools.

Statistics - collecting, analysing, sorting of data. Report.

We learn about R, Python, SPSS, 
Engenieering matlab - a bit abstract.

Accounting.
Quickbooks- Take us through to understand how it works.
Sage
Tally Pastel Etc

Review of ICT experts:
Soft Eng
    Create tools
Data Eng
    Build sytem that consolidate data. Pull/ source that data.
Data Scientist.
    Machine learning algorithm. Understanding customer behaviour.
    
EXAMPLE:


